Annual
Report
??fﬁo
$60 ml“ . n
5’ L; .ﬁ’klu“
““11.” SECURITIES
CMMSSXO AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION
For the Fiscal YearEnded June 30th



SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Headquarters Ofﬁce

500 North Capitol Street

Washington, D.C. 20549
COMNHSSIONERS

HAMER H. BUDGE, 0haz'rman*

HUGH F. OWENS

RICHARD B. SMITH

J AMES J . NEEDHAM

A. SYDNEY HERLONG, JR.

ORVAL L. DUBOIS, Secretary
*Chairman Budge announced his resignation, effective at the end of the 91st
Congress, on November 13, 1970.
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents. U.S. Government Printing Ofﬁce
Washington, D.C. 20402 - Price $1.00 (paper cover)



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, 0.0.
Sms : On behalf of the Securities and Exchange Commissiom I have

the honor to transmit to you the Thirty-Sixth Annual Report of the ~
' Commission covering the ﬁscal year J uIy 1, 1969 to J une 30, 197.0, in ‘

accordance with the provisions of Section 23(b) of the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; Section 23 of the Public Utility

Holding Company Act of 1935; Section 46 (a) of the Investment Com«

pany Act of 1940; Section 216 of the Investment Advisers Act of

1940; Section 3 of the Act of June 29, 1949, amending the Bretton

Woods Agreement Act; Section 11 (b) of the Inter-American Develop—

ment Bank Act; and Section 11(1)) of the Asian Development Bank

Act. '

Respectfully, ‘
I'IUGH F. OWENS,
00mmi33éoner.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE, /
THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, 19.0.
m



COMMISSIONERS AND PRINCIPAL STAFF OFFICERS
(As of December 1, 1970)
Term
. ewpzres
Commlssioners June 5
HAMER H. BUDGE of Idaho, Chairman________,____-_______________ 1974
HUGH F. OWENS of Oklahoma____--____________-_L,,,_n,_-_____ 1975
RICHARD B. SMITH of New York________-_________________________ 1972
JAMES J. NEEDHAM of New York___-___m___---_~____-__________ 1973
A. SYDNEY HEBLONG, Jr. of Florida___..__-_________-___-___..,_____ 1971
Secretary: ORVAL L. DUBOIs
Executive Assistant to the Chairman: TIMOTHY G. GREENE
Principal Staﬂ' Ofﬁcers
ALAN B. LEVENSON, Director, Division of Corporation Finance.
THOMAS N. HOLLOWAY, Associate Director.
RALPH C. Hocm, Associate DirectOr.
SOLOMON FREEDMAN, Director, Division of Corpomte Regulation.
AARON LEVY, Associate Director.
ALLAN S. Mosmom, Associate Director.
IRVING M. POLLAOK, Director, Division of Trading and Markets.
SHELDON RAPPAPOET, Associate Director.
STANLEY SPOBKIN, Associate Director.
PHILIP A. Locum, J12, General Counsel.
DAVID FERBEB, Solicitor.
WALTER P. NORTH, Associate General Counsel.
ANDREW BARB, Chief Accountant.
A. CLARENCE SAMPSON, J r., Associate Chief Accountant.
GENE L. FINN, Chief Economist, Ofﬁce of Policy Research.
LEONARD HELFENSTEIN, Director, Ofﬁce of Opinions and Review.
W. VICTOR RonIN, Associate Director.
ALFRED LL‘I‘ZLEB, Associate Director.
Wn.me E. BECKER, Chief Management Analyst.
FRANK J. DONATY, Comptroller.
ERNEST L. DESSECKER, Records and Service Oﬂicer.
HARRY POLLAOK, Director of Personnel.
RALPH L. BELL, EDP Manager.
V



REGIONAL AND BRANCH OFFICES
Regional Ofﬁces and Regional Administrators

Region 1. New York, New Jersey.—Kevin Thomas Duﬁy, 26 Federal Plaza,
New York, New York 10007.

RegiOn 2. Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Vermont, New Hamp-
shire, Maine.—-Floyd H. Gilbert, Suite 2208, John F. Kennedy Federal
Bldg., Government Center, Boston, Mass. 02203.

Region 3. Tennessee, Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Florida, that part of Louisiana
lying east of the Atchafalaya River.—Ju1e B. Greene, Suite 138, 1371
Peachtree Street, N. E., Atlanta, Georgia 30309.

Region 4. Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas City (Kansas), Kentucky, Michi-
gan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, Wisconsin.—John I. Mayer, Room 1708,
Everett McKinley Dirksen Bldg., 219 South Dearborn Street, Chicago,
Illinois 60604.

Region 5. Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas, that part of Louisiana lying west
of the Atchafalaya River, and Kansas (except Kansas City).—Gerald E.
Boltz, 503 U.S. Court House, 10th & Lamar Streets, Fort Worth, Texas
76102.

Region 6. Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico, Nebraska, North Dakota,
South Dakota, Utah.—Donald J . Stocking, 7224 Federal Bldg., 1961
Stout Street, Denver, Colorado 80202.

Region 7. California, Nevada, Arizona, Hawaii, Guam.—Arthur E. Penne-
kamp, 450 Golden Gate Avenue, Box 36042, San Francisco, California
94102.

Region 8. Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Alaska.——James E. New-
ton, 900 Hoge Bldg, Seattle, Washington 98104.

Region 9. Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, Dis-
trict of Columbia.-—A_lexander J . Brown, Jr., Room 532, Crystal Mall No.
2 Bldg, 1921 Jefferson Highway, P.0. Box 2247, Arlington, Va. 22202.

Branch Ofﬁces

Cleveland, Ohio 44199.—Room 899, Federal Ofﬁce Bldg., 1240 E. 9th at
Lakeside.

Detroit, Michigan 48226—2230 Federal Bldg.

Houston, Texas 77022.—Room 6617 Federal Oﬂice & Courts Bldg., 515
Rusk Ave.

Los Angeles, California 90012.—~Room 1043, US. Courthouse, 312 North
Spring Street.

Miami, Florida 33130—110011) 1504, Federal Ofﬁce Bldg., 51 S.W., First
Ave.

St. Louis, Missouri 63102.—R00m 1452, 210 North Twelfth Street.

Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.—Room 6004, Federal Bldg, 125 South State
Street.

VI



COMISSIONERS
Hamer H. Budge, Chairman

Chairman Budge was born in Pocatello, Idaho, on N ovember 21,
1910. He attended the College of Idaho, Caldwell, Idaho, and re-
ceived an AB. degree from Stanford University, Palo Alto, Califor-
nia, majoring in political science, and an LL.B. degree from the Uni-
versity of Idaho in Moscow, Idaho. He is admitted to practice
before the Supreme Court of Idaho and the Supreme Court of the
United States and practiced law in the city of Boise, Idaho, from
1936 to 1951, except for 31/2 years in the United States Navy
(1942—1945), With ﬁnal discharge as Lieutenant Commander.
Elected to the Idaho State Legislature, he served three sessions, two
as assistant Republican ﬂoor leader and and one as majority ﬂoor
leader. First elected to Congress in November 1950, he represented
Idaho’s Second Congressional District in the US. House of Repre—
sentatives during the 82d, 83d, 84th, 85th, and 86th Congresses. In
the House he was a member of the Rules Committee, Appropriations
Committee, and Interior Committee. During the period from 1961
until his appointment to the Commission he was District J udge in
Boise. He took ofﬁce as a member of the Commission on J uly 8,
1964, for the term expiring J une 5, 1969, and was reappointed for
the term expiring J une 5, 1974. He was designated Chairman of the
Commission on February 22, 1969.

Hugh F. Owens

Commissioner Owens was born in Muskogee, Oklahoma, on Octo—
ber 15, 1909, and moved to Oklahoma City in 1918. He graduated
from Georgetown Preparatory School, Washington, D.C., in 1927,
and received his A.B. degree from the University of Illinois in 1931.
In 1934, he received his LLB. degree from the University of Okla-
homa College of Law, and became associated with a Chicago law
ﬁrm specializing in securities law. He returned to Oklahoma City in
January 1936, to become associated with the ﬁrm of Rainey, Flynn,
Green and Anderson. From 1940 to 1941, he was vice president of
the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce. During World
War II he attained the rank of Lieutenant Commander, U.S.N.R.,
and served as Executive Ofﬁcer of a Paciﬁc Fleet destroyer. In 1948,
he became a partner in the ﬁrm of Hervey, May and Owens. From
1951 to 1953, he served as counsel for the Superior Oil Company in

VII



PART I
IMPORTANT RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Recent Market Trends

Between 1964 and 1968, the securities industry experienced an
enormous and largely unanticipated increase in the volume of trad—
ing, with annual share volume on all registered stock exchanges ris—
ing from 2 to 5.3 billion shares. Since then, however, trading has
subsided and volume during the ﬁrst half of 1970 was down 18 per-
cent from the comparable 1968 period. The reduced trading volume
has been accompanied by substantial declines in stock prices and in
the number of new issues offered for distribution. There has also
been since 1964 a signiﬁcant change in trading patterns, character-
ized by an increased participation by ﬁnancial institutions in equity
markets and a proportionately decreased participation by individual
investors. Block transactions, or trades involving a large number of
shares, have increased along with the rise in institutional activity.

The rapid growth in trading in the mid-1960’s caused serious op-
erational problems throughout the brokerage industry. To cope With
these back—oﬂice problems, many ﬁrms made substantial investments
in automated equipment and hired new employees. These expendi—
tures and a general inﬂation in operational costs accentuated the loss
of revenue that accompanied the decline in stock prices and trading
volume in 1969 and 1970. The rather extensive losses incurred by
many broker-dealers forced some ﬁrms into bankruptcy or liquida-
tion and a number of others have merged in an attempt to improve
their ﬁnancial condition and operations.

Much of the Commission’s time and attention has been devoted to
the problems created by these recent market developments. For ex—
ample, the Commission has conducted extensive hearings concerning
the commission rate structure and has participated in drafting
legislation to provide increased protection against broker-dealer in-
solvency. The Commission has also been developing procedures to
accommodate the new automated trading systems and improved clear-
ing procedures being introduced in the securities industry. Many of
these activities are described in greater detail in the following sec-
tions of this Report.

I
409—865— 71——2



2 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Operating and Financial Condition of Broker-Dealer Firms

The “back ofﬁce” problems which beset the securities industry in
1969,1 while still not completely resolved, have been overshadowed
during the past year by the serious ﬁnancial difﬁculties experienced
by many ﬁrms. In part, the current ﬁnancial squeeze grew out of ef-
forts to meet the unprecedented trading volume of prior years
through the expansion of ﬁrms and the automation of facilities.
Some ﬁrms, wishing to take advantage of the increased trading vol—
ume, opened ofﬁces in locations which could not in normal times pro-
duce the amount of business needed for proﬁtable operations. Other
ﬁrms experienced severe difﬁculties in attempting to go from manual
record keeping and securities handling procedures to automated sys-
tems. When volume on the exchanges and in the over-the-counter
marked dropped, ﬁrms were forced to retrench by reducing the num—
ber of branch ofﬁces and by cutting back sales and clerical personnel.
Operating losses were widespread throughout the industry, and some
of the larger ﬁrms were sustaining large and consistent losses.

The continuing decline in securities prices in 1970, following that
of 1969, had an adverse effect on the ﬁnancial condition of broker—
dealers in two ways: ﬁrst, it contributed to the decline in trading
volume; and second, it diminished the capital of ﬁrms both by low-
ering the value of trading and investment positions and by making
it more difﬁcult for ﬁrms to sell restricted securities or large posi-
tions of thinly—traded securities. In view of the declining proﬁt mar-
gins and shrinking security prices, many ﬁrms were unable to re-
plenish depletions of capital caused by the death or withdrawal of
partners or by the failure of subordinated lenders to renew their
loans.

A number of ﬁrms have merged in an effort to improve their ﬁnan-
cial condition. Other ﬁrms have been forced into liquidation be-
cause they could no longer comply with the ﬁnancial responsibility
requirements of the Commission and the exchanges.

During the last ﬁscal year the Commission took action in a num—
ber of cases to enforce compliance with its net capital rule and other
rules designed for the protection of investors’ funds and securities.
The net capital rule, which requires that broker-dealers have at least
$1 in net capital for every $20 in aggregate indebtedness, is designed
to assure that ﬁrms will maintain enough liquid assets to meet nor-
mal demands from customers for the delivery of their funds and se-
curities. The various measures taken when it appeared that these
rules were being violated included the institution of 45 administra-

1 See 35th Annual Report, pp. 1—4.



THIRTY-SIX‘I‘H ANNUAL REPORT 3
tive proceedings and 29 injunctive actions; the Commission obtained
the appointment of receivers in 21 of the injunctive proceedings.
Certain of the exchanges also took action against their members to
enforce compliance with similar rules, and they forced other ﬁrms to
merge or to liquidate their business.

The New York Stock Exchange made commitments from its Spe-
cial Trust Fund to protect the customers of troubled member ﬁrms,
and certain other exchanges with trust funds also acted to assume
responsibility for the obligations of certain of their members who
had become insolvent. However, by the spring of 1970 the amount of
money remaining uncommitted in various exchange trust funds ap-
peared to be inadequate to do more than indemnify the customers of
those ﬁrms which were at that time already in serious ﬁnancial dif-
ﬁculty. Consequently, both the Commission and the Administration
engaged in intensive efforts to secure adoption of legislation which
would insure funds and securities of customers of brokerage ﬁrms
against future insolvencies much as bank deposits are insured.
PrOposed Legislation To Provide Increased Protection Against Broker-Dealer

Insolvency

The ﬁrst legislative proposals for broker-dealer insurance were in-
troduced by Senator Muskie of Maine in J une 1969. Congressional
hearings on these and similar legislative proposals were held begin-
ning in April 1970. With the encouragement of the Congressional
committees concerned, the Commission joined with representatives of
the securities industry, the Treasury Department and other govern-
ment agencies to draft revised legislation which would meet certain
objections to the original proposals. A “consensus” bill, which was
submitted in J uly 1970 to Congressional subcommittees, provided
for the creation of a nonproﬁt membership corporation, to be known
as Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) , to administer
the insurance program. At the date of writing in October 1970, the
appropriate committees of both houses of Congress had approved ver-
sions of the bill and it awaits a ﬂoor vote in each house. The versions
approved by the House and Senate Committees differ from the con-
sensus bill as well as from each other. However, the basic program
and the overall plan of implementation, as proposed in the consensus
bill, remain.*

'A bill embodying this proposed legislation, H.R. 19333, was passed by the
House on December 1, 1970. The bill, with added amendments, was passed by the
Senate on December 10, 1970 and then went to a Conference Committee which
issued a report (H. Rept No. 91—1788) on December 18, 1970. The Conference
version of the bill was passed by the House on December 21, 1970 and by the
Senate on December 22, 1970. The enrolled bill was signed by the President on
December 30, 1970 and is now Public Law 91—598.



4 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Under both bills, all registered broker—dealers and all members of
national securities exchanges would be members of the Corporation
unless exempted. The bills would provide insurance coverage of up to
$50,000 per customer in the event of failure of a broker—dealer. The
insurance program would be funded by the industry, with $1 billion
in standby credit from the United States Treasury. A fund of at
least $7 5 million, to be raised from the industry by assessments on
its members and by bank lines of credit, would be available within
120 days of enactment of the legislation. Broker-dealers would be
assessed annually 1/2 of 1 percent of their gross revenues from the
Securities business until such time as the fund reached $150 million.
Thereafter, assessments could fall to 14 of 1 percent until all lines of
credit were phased out. If at any time the fund were to fall below
$100 million, the 1/2 0f 1 percent assessment would be reinstated. Se-
curities exchanges would be able to transfer trust funds they main-
tain for the protection of customers of their members to the Corpo-
ration as a credit against future assessments on their members.

If the fund accumulated by the assessments and bank lines of
credit should prove to be insufﬁcient, the Commission could borrow
up to $1 billion from the Treasury and advance these funds to the
Corporation. As a condition of any such loan, the Commission would
have to certify to the Secretary of the Treasury that the loan is nec-
essary to protect investors and maintain conﬁdence in United States
securities markets and that the Corporation has submitted a plan
providing a reasonable assurance of prompt repayment through the
imposition of additional assessments. The Commission could impose
a transaction fee (up to a speciﬁed percentage of the purchase price)
on equity securities purchases of $5,000 or more if necessary to satis-
factorily repay the loan.

Under the proposed legislation, the existing self—regulatory orga-
nizations Would continue to inspect their members for compliance
with “ﬁnancial responsibility rules” and make such reports on these
inspections as the Corporation might require. The Commission,
moreover, would have additional powers to require any self-regula—
tory organization to (1) alter or supplement rules relating to the
frequency and scope of inspection of the ﬁnancial condition of its
members, (2) furnish the Corporation and the Commission with re-
ports relating to such ﬁnancial condition, and (3) inspect members
in relation to their ﬁnancial condition.

The legislation would authorize the Corporation to apply to a
court for a decree adjudicating that customers of a broker—dealer
member are in need of protection whenever it appears to the Corpo-
ration that a member has failed or is in danger of failing to meet its


